README.md, before:

# tmux-bro

A smart (and opinionated) tmux session manager that sets up project-specific sessions automatically.

Think [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/) but without predefined YAML configuration. Powered by [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/).

```
┌───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┐
│1| function main() {       │ $ npm run dev             │
│2|   console.log("Hello"); │ > project@1.0.0 dev       │
│3| }                       │ > vite                    │
│4|                         │                           │
│5|                         │ VITE v4.3.9 ready         │
│6|                         │ ➜ localhost:3000/         │
│7|    ┌──────────────┐     ├───────────────────────────┤
│8|    │   tmux-bro   │     │ $                         │
│9|    └──────────────┘     │                           │
│1|                         │                           │
│2|                         │                           │
│ NORMAL • main.js          │                           │
└───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┘
```

## features

- Fuzzy find your projects with [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) and [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide)
- Automatic workspace detection for npm, pnpm, yarn and Cargo
- Smart session layout based on project type
- Automatically runs `dev` script in a pane when available
- Handles Python virtual environments

## installation

```sh
pipx install git+https://github.com/raine/tmux-bro.git
```

## dependencies

- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) for fuzzy finding
- [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) (optional) for directory navigation

## setup

### tmux popup bind (optional but recommended)

Set up a mapping in tmux configuration that runs `tmux-bro` in a popup:

```sh
bind C-t display-popup -E "tmux-bro"
```

### project discovery

tmux-bro uses two approaches to discover your projects:

1. **zoxide** (recommended): If you have
   [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) installed, tmux-bro will use
   it to find your accessed directories and feed them to fzf. This leverages
   your existing navigation habits without requiring additional configuration.

2. **Global config** (fallback): If zoxide is not available, tmux-bro
   will look for projects in the directory specified by the
   `projects_dir` setting in your global config file. Create a config file at
   `~/.config/tmux-bro.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   projects_dir: "/path/to/your/projects"
   ```

Both approaches integrate with fzf to provide a fast fuzzy-search interface for selecting projects.

## usage

Hit the tmux popup mapping or run `tmux-bro`.

This will:

1. Open a fuzzy finder to select a project directory
2. Detect the workspace type (npm, pnpm, Cargo, or plain)
3. Create a tmux session with appropriate layout for the project

## configuration

- **`EDITOR`** environment variable: Specifies your preferred editor (e.g., `vim`,
  `nvim`, or `code`).
- **Global config file** at `~/.config/tmux-bro.yaml` with the following options:
  - `projects_dir`: Defines the fallback directory for project discovery if
    [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) isn't installed.
    Set this to where you store your projects (e.g., `$HOME/projects`).
  - `layout`: Sets the default tmux layout for all sessions. Valid options include
    `main-vertical`, `main-horizontal`, `tiled`, `even-horizontal`, `even-vertical`.
    If not specified, `main-vertical` is used as the default.
  - `main_pane_width`: Sets the width of the main pane for vertical layouts (default: "50%").
  - `main_pane_height`: Sets the height of the main pane for horizontal layouts (default: "50%").

If my own needs evolve — or compelling feedback is given — more customization
options might be added later. For now, it’s lean and opinionated by design.

## example

When used with a npm monorepo, tmux bro will:

1. Create a tmux session named after your repository
2. Create separate windows for each package
3. In each window, set up:
   - Your editor in the main pane
   - A dev script running (if the package has one)
   - A clean shell

## license

MIT

## see also

- [tmux-inspect](https://github.com/raine/tmux-inspect)

Commit message:

add project specific dev_command override

README.md, after:

# tmux-bro

A smart (and opinionated) tmux session manager that sets up project-specific sessions automatically.

Think [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/) but without predefined YAML configuration. Powered by [tmuxp](https://tmuxp.git-pull.com/).

```
┌───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┐
│1| function main() {       │ $ npm run dev             │
│2|   console.log("Hello"); │ > project@1.0.0 dev       │
│3| }                       │ > vite                    │
│4|                         │                           │
│5|                         │ VITE v4.3.9 ready         │
│6|                         │ ➜ localhost:3000/         │
│7|    ┌──────────────┐     ├───────────────────────────┤
│8|    │   tmux-bro   │     │ $                         │
│9|    └──────────────┘     │                           │
│1|                         │                           │
│2|                         │                           │
│ NORMAL • main.js          │                           │
└───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┘
```

## features

- Fuzzy find your projects with [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) and [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide)
- Automatic workspace detection for npm, pnpm, yarn and Cargo
- Smart session layout based on project type
- Automatically runs `dev` script in a pane when available
- Handles Python virtual environments

## installation

```sh
pipx install git+https://github.com/raine/tmux-bro.git
```

## dependencies

- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) for fuzzy finding
- [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) (optional) for directory navigation

## setup

### tmux popup bind (optional but recommended)

Set up a mapping in tmux configuration that runs `tmux-bro` in a popup:

```sh
bind C-t display-popup -E "tmux-bro"
```

### project discovery

tmux-bro uses two approaches to discover your projects:

1. **zoxide** (recommended): If you have
   [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) installed, tmux-bro will use
   it to find your accessed directories and feed them to fzf. This leverages
   your existing navigation habits without requiring additional configuration.

2. **Global config** (fallback): If zoxide is not available, tmux-bro
   will look for projects in the directory specified by the
   `projects_dir` setting in your global config file. Create a config file at
   `~/.config/tmux-bro.yaml` with the following content:

   ```yaml
   projects_dir: "/path/to/your/projects"
   ```

Both approaches integrate with fzf to provide a fast fuzzy-search interface for selecting projects.

## usage

Hit the tmux popup mapping or run `tmux-bro`.

This will:

1. Open a fuzzy finder to select a project directory
2. Detect the workspace type (npm, pnpm, Cargo, or plain)
3. Create a tmux session with appropriate layout for the project

## configuration

### global

- **`EDITOR`** environment variable: Specifies your preferred editor (e.g., `vim`,
  `nvim`, or `code`).
- **Global config file** at `~/.config/tmux-bro.yaml` with the following options:
  - `projects_dir`: Defines the fallback directory for project discovery if
    [zoxide](https://github.com/ajeetdsouza/zoxide) isn't installed.
    Set this to where you store your projects (e.g., `$HOME/projects`).
  - `layout`: Sets the default tmux layout for all sessions. Valid options include
    `main-vertical`, `main-horizontal`, `tiled`, `even-horizontal`, `even-vertical`.
    If not specified, `main-vertical` is used as the default.
  - `main_pane_width`: Sets the width of the main pane for vertical layouts (default: "50%").
  - `main_pane_height`: Sets the height of the main pane for horizontal layouts (default: "50%").

If my own needs evolve — or compelling feedback is given — more customization
options might be added later. For now, it’s lean and opinionated by design.

### project-specific

You can override tmux-bro settings on a per-project basis by creating a `.tmux-bro.yaml` file in your project root:

```yaml
# override the default 'dev' command for all packages
dev_command: "npm run start:dev"

# package-specific overrides (for workspaces)
packages:
  package-name:
    dev_command: "npm run custom-dev"
```

## example

When used with a npm monorepo, tmux bro will:

1. Create a tmux session named after your repository
2. Create separate windows for each package
3. In each window, set up:
   - Your editor in the main pane
   - A dev script running (if the package has one)
   - A clean shell

## license

MIT

## see also

- [tmux-inspect](https://github.com/raine/tmux-inspect)
